description:

Our project  aims to achieve the dual purpose of helping the Alaskan hunting community on one hand and raising awareness about the affects on climate change on the other hand. It is true that NASA and other government agencies have a plethora of data but most of this data cannot be used directly to help people to take educated decisions on their day to day life. We are building a three way bridge between the massive data producers like NASA, NSIDC, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration(NOAA), the people of Alaskan hunting community and the scientific community. We are fetching important data like sea-ice Radar, sea-surface temperature, sea-ice fraction, wind speed/direction
velocity of currents, coordinates from data centres of various government and non-government organizations and showing them through a user-friendly and intuitive icon based interface using Google Maps API so that the hunters can make a scientifically sound decision to reduce their risk and maximize their objective. Besides, the hunters will be able to customize their own map with various icons like glacier,danger point, fish point etc . Moreover, the users will not only consume data but provide their unique insight through image and audio. Those audios will add a human component to the machine generated data and help the scientist to conduct more in-depth research. Besides, our	 app will work on voice command based UI using android speech-to-text API and hence reducing dependency on finger based interaction to a minimum. We are also adding functionalities using gestures using the in-built Accelerometer sensor of Android. And we will focus a lot on colorful visual icons and meaningful audio reports to enhance user experience and ease of use. To help the user in dire situations, we are adding a distress call option which will pinpoint the exact location (latitude, longitude) of the user and show in a web interface using Google Map. Besides, we will inform the nearby of the emergency users using Google Cloud Messenger.

Besides, we will also build a web interface for the scientist where they can examine various aggregate data like the distress signals that originated from a particular place during a particular time period and the environmental statistics of that moment etc.  


innovative:
This app will be a unique platform of using cutting edge technology to help ordinary people earn their sustenance in a safe manner. Besides, people will be able to share their unique insights on the situation at hand very easily through a non-intrusive data collection manner. Many of the native alaskan languages are in danger of extinction. This app will revitalize the dying alaskan languages and preserve the hard earned knowledge of the earlier generations. Besides, the app will shed light on the plight of the communities at the forefront of the effects of climate change. And it will help us educate the people around the globe about the dire consequences of climate change.

changing how we operate:
Normally, the hunters rely on their experience and word of other hunters to take decisions on whether to hunt in a particular place or not. But the weather is changing in a breathtaking pace and it is becoming very dangerous to rely on non-scientific data. This app will merge the best elements of the traditional hunting knowledge and the vast amount of open data available.Now, a hunter can get data about the most important indicators of weather of a place before actually visiting the place. And use the data to take the best decision to ensure his safety and optimize his hunting objective.


changing how we behave:
Right now, the response of a hunter can be best described as "reactive". They have to judge the situation as it unfolds and take the best option available. But, through this app, the hunters will be more more "proactive" and will be able to judge a situation before it unfolds and take the best course of action. Besides, the hunters will  get an opportunity to show people around the world the dangers they are facing due to climate change. 


how is this different:
Right now, to the best of our knowledge, there is no app for bringing a lot of category of data like sea-ice Radar, sea-surface temperature, sea-ice fraction, wind speed/direction velocity of currents, coordinates etc. in one screen. There are some commercial services like OpenWeatherMap but they will not be able to give wide variety of data in such remote locations.
Besides, the app will also enable hunters to send distress signals and help each other in dire situations long before the arrival of any outside help.

